# Setup and sync CKB testnet node, indexer and install ckb-cli

CKB node is a program that operates Nervos Layer 1. Among other things it connects to other nodes via peer-to-peer network, downloads blockchain data and mines new blocks. You can choose whether you want to sync with testnet or mainnet. In this example we'll proceed with using a testnet.

This program can also create new developer chain for you called devnet for short. For now lets skip the details how it works though and lets focus on testnet.

Alternative instructions how to setup a testnet node can be found on [Nervos official guides website](https://docs.nervos.org/docs/basics/guides/testnet).


## Setup

### Windows

On Windows we recommend you install [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) and then follow instructions for Linux.

### Linux

At the beginning run a few commands below to create `projects` directory in your user directory. In this directory you'll download CKB binary and add it to binaries path, so it works when you use `ckb` command. 

It's not obligatory to create `projects` directory, but it's a good way to organize the files. You will have an easier time later managing those directories.

Open Linux terminal and run following commands:

```
cd ~
mkdir projects
cd projects
curl -O https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb/releases/download/v0.42.0/ckb_v0.42.0_x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz -L
tar -xvzf ckb_v0.42.0_x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz
mv ckb_v0.42.0_x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu ckb-0.42
```

Now, add CKB binary to path. If you use bash:

```
nano ~/.bashrc
```

Or if you use Zsh:
```
nano ~/.zshrc
```

Then after you've opened proper file - add the following line at the end of it (note that I've put `ckb-0.42` directory in the `~/projects` folder, adjust it for your setup):

```
export PATH=$HOME/projects/ckb-0.42:$PATH
```

Now restart terminal session and run:

```
ckb
```

It should print help information for CKB binary. If it doesn't work and system can't find the `ckb` command something is misconfigured. [Working example command output](https://gist.github.com/Kuzirashi/ef4b8f164e086913872be4e9e5d727a6).

Now you can initiate a testnet chain in new directory. In the example below we will use directory "nervos-testnet", but you can use any name. You don't need to create that directory beforehand, it will be created automatically for you when running the first command with initialization.

```sh
ckb init --chain testnet -C nervos-testnet
```

Example output:
```
➜  ckb init --chain testnet -C nervos-testnet
WARN: mining feature is disabled because of lacking the block assembler config options
Initialized CKB directory in nervos-testnet
create ckb.toml
create ckb-miner.toml
create default.db-options
Genesis Hash: 0x10639e0895502b5688a6be8cf69460d76541bfa4821629d86d62ba0aae3f9606
```

Now you can enter this new directory and start the node and the syncing process. It will begin downloading testnet data.

```
cd nervos-testnet
ckb run
```

It will start the syncing process.

Example output:
```
...
2021-06-16 14:24:42.159 +02:00 ChainService INFO ckb_chain::chain  block: 12754, hash: 0xd83a566c843e59e85c6cee4e063b331b6620cc4999ab66a6b28f1b647941ca95, epoch: 20(138/1009), total_diff: 0x9a7a5cdb9e, txs: 1
2021-06-16 14:24:42.162 +02:00 ChainService INFO ckb_chain::chain  [block_verifier] block number: 12755, hash: Byte32(0x69f08f8ccb85266d2df119f6e94f677bcb3424717d29d8d78cc868ae58938f3b), size:984/597000, cycles: 1716730/3500000000
2021-06-16 14:24:42.163 +02:00 ChainService INFO ckb_chain::chain  block: 12755, hash: 0x69f08f8ccb85266d2df119f6e94f677bcb3424717d29d8d78cc868ae58938f3b, epoch: 20(139/1009), total_diff: 0x9a7c9f4130, txs: 2
...
```

On AMD Ryzen 9 3900X 12-Core (24 virtual cores) Processor 3.79 GHz, 32GB RAM, SSD disk and 1000 Mb network speed the process took 4 hours to sync 1,900,000 testnet blocks.

The syncing process can last for a long time. It can take multiple hours. **We can make the process faster though by downloading a "blockchain data checkpoint"**. This means instead of syncing and verifying all the blocks on the testnet, we can instead download already built and verified database. 

**Caution: On mainnet you probably don't want to do this, because you should verify all the blocks. We do this because we're on testnet chain, which main purpose is, well, testing and testnet assets hold no value.**

## Use checkpoint data to sync fast

### CKB CLI

If you don't have it already installed, install 7zip utility:
```
sudo apt-get install p7zip-full
```

Now download `.7z` archive with the data and extract it in `ckb-cli` directory:

```
cd ~/.ckb-cli/index-v1
sudo rm -rf 0x10639e0895502b5688a6be8cf69460d76541bfa4821629d86d62ba0aae3f9606
curl -O https://s3.amazonaws.com/cdn.ckb.tools/snapshots/20210704-nervos-ckb-indexer-testnet-snapshot.7z -L
7z x 20210704-nervos-ckb-indexer-testnet-snapshot.7z -o0x10639e0895502b5688a6be8cf69460d76541bfa4821629d86d62ba0aae3f9606
```

Now if you run your `ckb-cli` command again, for example if you try to get balance, you're still going to wait for the remaining data to sync, but the time to do so will be much shorter.

*Note: You can delete original `.7z` file that you downloaded or leave it if you plan to use it later for fast-syncing other tools.*

## Devnet

Throught this series of tutorials we've been mostly running testnet nodes, but in some cases you might want to use devnet node. There are few reasons w

```
cd ~/projects
ckb init --chain dev -C nervos-devnet
cd nervos-devnet
```

### Configure dev chain

Before we start our devnet node we need to make a few changes to the chain configuration to work with it easily.

We've created setup data for the dev chain but we need to adjust some stuff to make it more feasible to work with the chain. At the end of `~/projects/ckb-dev/ckb.toml` add:
```
[block_assembler]
code_hash = "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8"
args = "0xdb57a16a080dc07f19eaccbf6e0377fb348766a9"
hash_type = "type"
message = "0x"
```

I'm not going to customize it further for simplicity of this example. If you want to learn more how you can tweak it check [this documentation page](https://docs.nervos.org/docs/basics/guides/devchain) which does a great job at it.

Terminal 1:
```
cd ~/projects/nervos-devnet
ckb run
```

Terminal 2:
```
cd ~/projects/nervos-devnet
ckb miner
```